(dramatic electronic music). - So, April 27, 2017. Was the greatest day in the history of twitter.com.net.gov.

I realize that to you children, Twitter is an app. But to us MILFs, it remains a website. We have to dial in.

(dial-up modem chirping) Hello operator. Connect me to hell. This was the day that Fyre Festival, a "luxury music event" hosted by Ja Rule and some charlatan was scheduled to begin on private island in the Bahamas.

There was a lot of hype. Kendall Jenner and Bella Hadid endorsed the festival on Instagram, there was a promo video full of supermodels, tickets were selling for thousands of dollars. One Twitter thread summarized the marketing as, "Exclusivity, conspicuous consumption, & many, many promises of excellent selfies for your already-insufferable Instagram."

So, when the day arrived, and the advertised "best in food, art, music and adventure" turned out to be two slices of pallid American cheese languishing over sliced bread in an atmosphere. That can only be described as muddy third-world shantytown- I mean if you weren't on Twitter that day, I don't think you can even imagine the revelry.

- [Twitter User 1] Just learned about @fyrefestival aka Ja Rule's Concentration Camp for Instagram models and rich white kids. - [Twitter User 2] Yuppie hunger games hosted by ja-rule. - [Twitter User 3] Finish your food, there's starving millennial influencers in #fyrefestival.

- [Twitter User 4] Instagram entitled rich kids meet Lord of the Flies. - [Twitter User 5] Let them eat salad. - It was a shuddering climax of pent-up class rage.

You know, maybe Millennials couldn't get Bernie Sanders elected, but at least those sandwiches were garbage! (dramatic music) Jameela Jamil is an English actress who is just extremely pretty. Imagine looking like this.

Imagine being perfect. Why are you doing this to me Jameela? Why are you doing this to women?

One day on Instagram, an ordinary peasant told the Queen Jameela, "Your skin is so perfect uwu." And Jameela replied, - [Jameela] "My skin is currently clear because: A, privileged people have more access to good quality nutrition and also our lives are significantly less stressful than those. With less privilege.

I also get to sleep more because of this. All of these things keep my hormones in balance and I'm able to address food intolerances easily. B, I believe that trans rights are human rights.

C, I exfoliate twice a week." - Oh boy. Jameela they're gonna cut your head off, gorg.

I'll protect you queen! - [Twitter User 1] Could she be more annoying? - Someone wondered on Twitter, to 77,000 likes.

- [Twitter User 2] This trend of fake self awareness legit makes me wanna rip my hair out. - Now look, to be fair, everything Jameela said is true. Being privileged does make it easier to spend time and money on cosmetics.

But Jameela's acknowledging this, this recitation of all the complex socioeconomic factors that account for why she's prettier than you, doesn't take any of the sting out of inequality, does it? And that's is kind of at odds with what activists used to say, which is that you should check your privilege.

A suggestion which privileged people seem to have taken to heart, since the rich and famous now go around delivering these orations on how fortunate they are compared to rabble. And this of course, turns out to be far more annoying than when they acted oblivious to it. "I don't have any beauty secrets, I guess I just drink lots of water."

Take me, mother! A similar scandal occurred when Kim Kardashian tweeted about her birthday party at the height of the coronavirus pandemic. - [Kim] 40 and feeling so humbled and blessed.

There is not a single day that I take for granted, especially during these times when we are all reminded of the things that truly matter. After two weeks of multiple health screens and asking everyone to quarantine, I surprised my closest inner circle with a trip to a private island where we could pretend things.

Were normal for just a brief moment in time, I realize that for most people, this is something that is so far out of reach right now, so in moments like these, I am humbly reminded. Of how privileged my life is. #thisis40.

Tag me, bitch. So like Jameela, Kim is attempting some kind of privilege-checking maneuver, and once again, it has not gone well. - [Twitter User 1] You are the Marie Antoinette of the 21st century, bragging about being "humble" and letting us eat cake.

- [Twitter User 2] Millions of Americans sick and suffering, standing for hours in food lines and being evicted as you flaunt your wealth and privilege. Your tweet made 10 times worse by #ToneDeaf "humbled and blessed" line. #gross.

- [Twitter User 3] Happy birthday. I hope someone got you an alphabet book as a gift, so you can learn to read the motherf*ckin-" - So the response on Twitter resembles moral outrage. But what people were upset about is not that she had the party, I mean, wouldn't you escape to a private island if you had that MILF money?

The problem was more that she tweeted about it, and that the tweet was, maybe just maybe, a little bit yikesy. But if having the party wasn't wrong, then why was tweeting about it wrong? "This isn't a good look," we say.

"Bad optics." "Not relatable." Relatable.

Relatability is not a moral category. This is public relations, it's not ethics. And it definitely isn't socialism.

Like I'm pretty sure Karl Marx never said- - [Karl] "The problem with the bourgeoisie is they're not relatable. They can't read the room, and it isn't a good look. This should have stayed in the drafts.

#ToneDeaf. - Isn't the issue that when Kim tweeted this most people were trapped in quarantine. We didn't get to have birthday parties.

Some people couldn't even travel to visit