(TV buzzes) (static roars) (gloomy music) (static roars) (hopeful music) (alarm screeches) (tone rings) - [Natalie] The following program is a work of fiction created for educational, artistic,. And harm-reduction purposes in compliance with the VideoCorp terms of service. I love VideoCorp.

I love the rules. Any resemblance to actual persons is a super crazy coincidence. May the grace of our Lord, Jesus Christ, be with you.

TS Natalie Wynn. (static roars) (beer sloshes) (snare drum rolls) (beer glugs) - War! What is it good for? Absolutely goddamn everything.

According to the National Institute for Strategic American Liberty Heritage Enterprise Prosperity Commerce Policy Research. Hi, I'm Jackie Jackson. You're listening to "The Freedom Pod" where it doesn't matter what you say.

It only matters that you say. We don't discriminate here between what is true or false or even downright dangerous. That's none of my business.

It's none of America's business. The important thing is that you never stop talking, 'cause that's what freedom is all about. Tonight, the war on drugs.

How do we get these goddamn junkies off the streets? (beer spatters) (froth slurps) - Jackie. - My first guest is Justine Tableau, (synthwave music) leftist influencer and author of such books as "Revolutionize Your Brand: How to Capitalize on Communism."

-, the editor chooses the title. I didn't choose the title. - And my second guest is Virginia Lamm, (pious music) senior pastor at Hope Truth Ministries.

Virginia, let's begin with you. Every day in Biden's America, Muslim cartels are driving Mexican dump trucks full of Chinese fentavoid across the Rio Grande. And they're getting our children amped outta their little minds on hype.

The world is laughing at us, even the Canadians, with their pronouns and their genders. How have we reached this point? Two words, Jackie, sexual anarchy.

(bell tolls) - Let that sink in. - Let what sink in? Sexual anarchy? What does that even mean?

- Jackie, the enemy has taken control of our culture. The radical left and the corporate media, they're replacing the nuclear family with aimless fornication. They're tearing apart the social fabric, and normal Americans are being silenced.

That's why we're seeing all this woke cancel culture PC CRT SJW globohomo pomo nomo. The people pushing this agenda, they don't want us resisting our captivity in Babylon, and that's why we're seeing so many attacks today on the most persecuted minority in America,. The Christian majority.

(bell tolls) - Virginia, I appreciate your pious gibberish, but could you be a little more specific? - Of course, Jackie. Religious liberties are under attack.

We're losing our right to teach biblical morality to children, who are growing up in public schools run by social engineers who laugh at God and would rather have gender-neutral bathrooms. And drag queen story hour- - Disgusting. - Than teach young people about the wonder-working power of the precious blood of the Lamb. - Yes, we do still have a constitution in this country.

I'm sorry that you feel offended by it. Believe it or not, the Founding Fathers actually wanted to protect us from whatever twisted necromancy these people think is Christianity. - Jackie, these communists are polluting the innocence of children, and if you speak out against the grooming, they call you a bigot.

Parents get no say anymore. They're being vilified just for having legitimate concerns about the deviant lifestyles promoted in schools. You know, one day your kids will come home, and you won't even recognize them anymore.

That's the real agenda here: sexual indoctrination. This generation that's coming up, 20% identify as LGBT. 40% are attempting suicide, and the remaining 70% are being delivered directly into the hands of pornographers, Satanic cultists, or, worse, Episcopalians.

- No! No, I won't stand for that. - I'm sorry, what does this have to do with drugs? - Well, everything.

Addiction and sexual brokenness, these are two heads of the same serpent, symptoms of the same cultural leprosy: single mothers, weak emasculated fathers, childhood sexual abu- - Is anyone going to ask me what I think? Why was I invited onto this podcast? To sit here and listen to the ramblings of a bigoted hate preacher?

- Well, God has nothing to do with hate. Christ is the definition of love. - Well, I'm not talking about Christ, Virginia.

I'm talking about you. - Justine, if she doesn't hate anyone, then how can she be a bigot? You liberals call everyone who disagrees with you a bigot. - Exactly.

- Why can't you just leave your emotions out of it for once and have a calm rational conversation with people who have different opinions. - Okay, well, let's see how that goes. - Jackie, regular Americans like me are just trying to set people free from sexual brokenness and protect the rights of children.

Kids who are struggling with gender confusion should have the right to access reparative therapy that will make them whole again. - "Reparative therapy"? You mean handing gay children over to exorcists for years of torture?

What a terrible wound of self-disgust to inflict on young people, telling them they're broken and polluted and they need God to make them whole. You people are selling the cure to a sickness you created. - Are you cancel culturing me right now?

- Oh my God, she's totally cancel culturing you right now. - Are you thought policing me? - No, I'm trying to stop you from thought policing everyone else.

- You're saying it should be a thought crime? You're saying that I'm a thought criminal just because I happen to believe in the traditional biblical definition of marriage between a man and a woman who form a covenant before God. Who gave his only begotten son to wash away the sins of the world when he died on the cross and was resurrected three days later, all glory to his name?

(gasps) Jackie, these are the silencing tactics of the