Gary Varvel had been working as a political cartoonist for over 25 years before he drew his most iconic piece of art. Varvel, who describes himself as a “Christian,.

Conservative, cartoonist and speaker in that order,” spent the majority of his career drawing cartoons for the Indianapolis Star. He lampooned U.S. political figures, ideological positions, and cultural moments. He published books, won awards, made a lot of jokes about who we should or.

Shouldn’t bomb. But it was only after he retired from the paper and went independent that Varvel created what very well might be his legacy. Sitting at the kitchen table, a woman reads an. Alarming news story from her phone. A man, standing in the foreground, turns a calendar page with horror. It is not the month he expected to see. Instead,.

It is…JANUARY NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR. This comic, by Gary Varvel, is one of the very few political cartoons to transcend into internet-culture-memedom. Perhaps it’s the broad applicability of the comic that made it so appealing,. With its nearly infinite potential to make different jokes in place of its original caption.

Or, perhaps its staying power is because of the thuddingly obvious original art, an on-the-nose invocation of George Orwell’s 1949 book, “Nineteen Eighty-Four.” Here’s a question for you — can you. Tell me what the original caption said? No, not the Cyberpunk variant, and not the broken calendars variant, and not the one where it’s about truckers not being allowed to.

Masturbate at the Celina 52 Truck Stop. What was the original text that this woman was saying? I’ll tell you. In January, 2021, Gary Varvel’s original comic read: “Twitter banned Trump’s account and Google suspended Parler… what’s going on?” Since 2021 was roughly thirty years ago, I’ll refresh your memory. During President Trump’s.

First term, many high profile social media platforms seemed to wrestle with the question of if they should ban him from posting. On one hand, he frequently posted extremely. High visibility misinformation, racism, and thinly veiled incitements to violence. On the other hand, he was…the President of the United States. The “Parler” referenced in the cartoon was one of a.

Handful of right wing alternative social medias that sprung up around this time, which promised to host conservatives without the perceived censorship running rampant on more mainstream platforms. Finally, the day came that most social. Medias — and web hosts, including Google — decided to boot Trump and affiliates off the platform.

This is what the cartoon is referencing. Here’s an even more difficult question for you. What was Varvel’s political cartoon immediately before this Nineteen Eighty-Four one? It was this, ol’ George Washington on the dollar bill, crying, hand over face. Why might this be the comic? Oh, because this is his comic about January Sixth.

Indeed, just three days before Varvel declared that we were falling into an Orwellian dystopic state, thousands of supporters of the sitting president stormed the country’s capital building in an attempt to overturn the results of a democratic election,. At the behest of said president. The failed coup was, in fact, largely planned on Parler. And then we “entered Nineteen Eighty-Four” because Trump got kicked off twitter.

I’ve been thinking about Varvel’s comic a lot recently, and not just because I recently saw one that’s about the announcement of the Steam Machine (FEBRUARY 1804?). No,. I think the cartoon is emblematic of the use of George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four as a kind of legitimacy booster for… whatever thing a person is arguing for. Orwell scholar John.

Rodden said the writer “fills a hole for anyone who wants to establish any kind of intellectual pedigree.” Other than the bible, I struggle to think of a book that has been used as such an. All-purpose cudgel for different ideologies, the ideologue always certain that whatever position they’re up against is truly “Orwellian.” And this has been true for virtually the whole of.

The book’s existence. As soon as it was published, nearly all sides of the political spectrum grabbed hold of Nineteen Eighty-Four in support of the thing they had already been saying. Why is this the case? Is it truly universally applicable? Is the book so vague in its positioning that it can apply to everyone? Or is its legacy one of consistent,.

Aggressive, misinterpretation? Is there a “right” way of reading Nineteen Eighty-Four? Nineteen Eighty-Four was the ninth and final book published by George Orwell. Nineteen Eighty-Four tells the story of Winston Smith, a man living in “Airstrip One” (formerly Great Britain), under a totalitarian government. And.

Let’s actually stop right there. I want you to do a little brainstorm and think to yourself: what are the things that come to mind when Nineteen Eighty-Four is evoked? What. Are its most indelible concepts? Because although the book is 300-some pages long, I think you can fit most of its popular conception into a few bullet points. Here’s my list.

Big Brother & Thought Police NewSpeak The Ministry of Truth Doublethink and 2+2=5. And to be honest, maintaining four bullet points of general awareness, 77 years after publication, is way better than most books could hope for. Giving four major bullet points is, in fact,.

Better than I could do for most books I read in the past year. But these points, separated from their text, are easily molded into any political narrative or attack. When Varvel. Summons Nineteen Eighty-Four to decry the banning of the United States President from Twitter, he is positioning Twitter as some sort of Thought Police. When Elon Musk invokes Orwell, as he has.

Done (sigh) dozens of times, it is usually some reference to a Ministry of Truth-like obvious lie from the government. Musk has referenced an invented “Orwell’s Law” (or “Orwell’s Rule,” he. Isn’t particularly consistent) that any government agency or legislation will most likely do the opposite of its name. Critics of Musk could then reference Nineteen Eighty-Four again, accusing him of Doublethink, given that he believed any