I don’t mean to brag, but I’ve seen video games. Pre-release. No, no, please hold your applause, I’m just an everyday man. But several different times, I’ve had the privilege of seeing an early build of an unreleased game,. One that “the public” hasn’t gotten to see. These are almost always NDA’d to hell, I am always very much Not Allowed to talk about the specific games or builds that I’ve seen.

The truth is, there’s not that much to say. Games in progress are typically like finished games, except worse. They feel less good to control, the sound design is absent, much of the environment is. Made out of placeholders. Assuming that you don’t, like, die before the finished game comes out, that final product is almost always the one that is more interesting and rewarding to play.

BUT SOMETIMES, very infrequently, I’ve run across a situation that’s different. It’s not that the game has been better pre-release, but I have been privy to developers trying to decide between a couple very different routes a game could go down. I know, ultimately,. They’ll choose one route and the other options will just disappear forever. And when I’ve been present at those crossroads moments, I always think…“someone should save this.”.

This is not a thought you’re allowed to have when under NDA for a big organization. Even if I did save something, which I am very much Not Allowed to Do, my hard drive would probably. Burn out before I could legally do anything interesting with it, and that’s assuming that anyone cares as much as I do about this random thing that didn’t ultimately end up happening.

Sometimes, if we’re very lucky, game studios will do that work themselves. Something like DoubleFine’s documentaries preserve these discarded ideas and conversations, sometimes art books or developer presentations will key us into visions of the game that never. Happened. But examples of this are both rare and limited; even the documentary PsychOdyssey, which is over 20 hours long, is only showing us glimpses. Any future research on Double Fine will.

Be bound by what previous documentarians chose to capture, and what the studio chose to preserve. What’s left out of that picture? And how incredible would it be to get that same level of insight into Shadow of the Colossus, or Super Metroid, or Metal Gear Solid 4?

So I have this impulse to squirrel things away. It is an impulse I ignore, but I cannot deny the thought. Even if I was to start saving stuff, I would also be a total amateur. Just me and a.

Little hard drive full of secrets. What would I even do with it? But in the realm of video game history, this is kind of how it works! [“We would have nothing if it weren’t for people taking some. Risks with that stuff. Maybe taking stuff or sharing stuff that they’re not supposed to, or maybe accidentally left it at their desk or accidentally left it outside or something.

Along those lines. We owe so much of what we know about video game history to people…at. Least bending the law, if not outright breaking it.”] — My concerns about records of development disappearing does feel a little like worrying about singeing my breakfast toast.

While the city outside burns to the ground. The Video Game History Foundation recently published their findings that 87% of classic games are essentially unavailable [“The way the. Law is set up in the US, your only option for 87% of these games are uhh, piracy or.

Maintaining expensive collectibles”]. And, for the record, “classic games” is defined as games through 2009. Halo 3 is a classic game at this point. Mirror’s Edge is a classic game. Super Mario Galaxy is a classic game. This is, as the foundation points out, just slightly better than the survival rate of pre-World War 2 audio recordings, and worse than the availability of American Silent Films. The entirety of the existence of.

This medium could be contained within a lifetime– my parents lifetime! – and yet most of it does not exist outside inaccessibly priced classic hardware and iffy rom sites that could disappear tomorrow. [“Piracy is great, but it is not- it can’t be the only solution for things. We can’t be relying just on the curation of pirates and the help of pirates to make sure everything is safe.

If there’s no other way to access these things, we are gatekeeping a big part of history. Libraries should be allowed to share these games with people in a way that is slightly more convenient than.

‘you can walk into your library, they can plop a ps2 that they’re maintaining on the counter, they can put in a disc, and you can play through all of Kingdom Hearts right there. It should be-.

You know, if you want to learn about Shakespeare, it’s not like you have to go to a weird discord to learn about how to do that. Why should it be the case for learning about Miyamoto?”]. What Kelsey says makes sense. The current copyright law is designed to “protect” the industry’s ability to sell things. It is not designed with any safeguards against companies.

Burning their own history to make their profit line go up. Depending on your region the Wii had more than twice as many games available on its virtual console in 2009 as the Switch does. Now. Digital storefronts continue to shut down. The 3DS, the Wii U, gone. Literally the morning I wrote this paragraph, the news broke that the Xbox 360 store will be closing next year,.

Meaning that hundreds of non-backwards-compatible games will essentially disappear. Here’s the thing I’m not supposed to say. Sometimes…I struggle to care as much as I feel like I’m supposed to. This is probably in part because of the false safety net of piracy,.

That if I wanted I could probably search for “whatever game ISO” and