Good morning it is 10 23 in the morning and I am about to quit my job it's now 11 46 and I've officially done it I have given my notice. All right we're back some of you may have come from tiktok for those of you who don't know me I'm cece I went to yale for undergrad and then harvard law.

I've been working at large law firms called big law for the past five and a half years where last year as a fifth year associate I made about 350 000. And that was working on a reduced hour schedule of 80 so kind of a sweet gig but as you saw and as the title of this video suggests.

I am quitting why well I have three major reasons okay but before we get into it I want to clarify that my reasons for leaving big law and my observations that I'll be. Talking about are garnered not only from my own experiences but also discussions and things that have happened to my co-workers and my friends across many different law firms as well I was.

Editing this video and thinking to myself god cece like I hope no one thinks that this is one gigantic subtweet because it's really not I actually think that I have had a great. Experience in big law I've been on reduced hours for the past two years and I've had an incredible amount of flexibility that is virtually unheard of in big law I stayed in big law way.

Longer than I expected to and that's wholly due to how amazing the people I work with are and the amazing culture that they cultivated it was truly truly. A privilege to work with them it made my decision to leave really difficult because they are a tough act to follow ultimately leaving is still the right.

Choice for me reason number one I do not want the partners lives I love the people with whom I work I respect them I think highly of them I cannot. Believe the practices that they have built for themselves and yet I do not want to beat them first they work so much often they are online at.

Least one day on weekends usually sunday but sometimes both even when they go on vacation they need to check email intermittently it was very common for partners to put up out of office. Messages good for them that will say that they will check their emails once in the morning and once in the evening and respond to things on an as needed.

Basis and you kind of need to do it it's very very difficult to totally totally unplug especially as a partner because the partner has their own relationship. With their clients last minute client demands can lead to cancelled plans and cancel dinners I'm no stranger to the schedule and although I could work these demanding hours as I was starting out.

Gaining new skills all of that I really can't work this kind of schedule non-stop for the rest of my career when I told my partner that I was thinking. About quitting he told me that he never expected us to hang out on weekdays like ever he never really pressured me or guilted me about my hours or job demands.

In our relationship but the fact that he was telling me now made me feel a little bit guilty about the fact that I was just prepared to do a job that does take. A lot from you and demand a lot of your time time that could be spent with your loved ones second partners have to service client demands even when client.

Demands are unreasonable the general tenor of big law is if clients say jump we say how high given how high our rates are and they are very very high it's not. Uncommon for associates to bill out at over a thousand dollars an hour some clients expect 24 7 365 turn around same day or next day turnarounds are not.

Uncommon in big law sometimes the urgent task that you had isn't even reviewed by the client until much much later and it becomes clear that it was a fake fire. Drill your client's disorganization ends up becoming your problem and if it's a firm client or a client of another partner you can't really tell them no I've witnessed clients treat partners.

Even really high-powered partners within and outside of the firm totally disrespectfully and the partners just kind of have to deal with it third it turns out that partners individually. Don't actually have the power to effectuate the changes that I thought that they could I never intended on staying in big law forever but as I got.

More senior and there was a part of me that saw hey I'm still here maybe if I could then I should because while 48 of associates are women and 12 percent of. Associates are asian just over four percent of partners are women of color and that's not even getting into the whole equity non-equity distinction there was a part of me that thought.

Maybe if I made partner I would have it made and I could effectuate the changes that I wanted to see within the industry but as I've gotten a little bit more. Senior I've also been able to see a bit more behind the current I've seen that making partner doesn't necessarily make your schedule better or that you've like.

Made it in fact there are tiers to partnership it's like once you've actually made the climb up the ladder to becoming partner you think you've made it but there's actually just a. Never-ending series of ladders for you to climb and unless you're the chair of the firm a top rainmaker within the firm you can't really shake the boat that.

Much big law firms