You have to stop. You have to stop. It is the end of act 2, the part of the movie where you hit rock bottom and stay with your mom or leave the country or lock yourself in your apartment.

You quit, you bottom out, you lose all inertia and just fucking stop. For a little while, you give up. It’s not even a choice, it’s just what follows when everything you’ve been doing fails; it’s the part of the story where rock bottom happens, that’s where it goes.

And the first dramatic tension of act 3 will be piecing yourself back together. You can’t imagine what that could possibly look like and that’s ok,. Because, right now, it’s still act 2.

And all of this is lies, by the way, and that has to be ok too. Life doesn’t actually have three-act structures. You are not guaranteed a rally before triumph.

This isn’t truth; this is a choice. This is how you choose to look at things. Remember someone on a forum a while ago, complaining about catharsis, “that’s not a thing that happens in real life” they said, and stories should stop pretending it does.

But you, you were assigned Aristotle’s Poetics in college, and you did read a little of it, and you know that’s not what catharsis is; stories give you catharsis because life doesn’t. Art picks and chooses from life and remixes it into something that makes sense.

Take a bunch of shit that happened and give it a beginning, middle, and end because that’s the way our brains are wired, that's how our memory works,. And the only way to pick out a lesson, get resolution, come to terms, is to write it that way. So you are writing this as the end of act 2.

You’re looking for signs, and you will find them, but you are the author, not the universe. You narrativize the past, and that’s how you write your future. You decide which things are plot-relevant, what of all that is happening right now will be good exposition for the sequel.

And so you have to stop, because it’s that part of the story. And it sucks, because not doing all the shit you need to do is why you’re bottoming out in the first place, is why everyone’s disappointed in you,. Is why your labor hasn’t sprouted a goddamn fruit in ages.

And stopping ain’t gonna make any of that better. But it doesn’t matter, because you’ve seen this story a thousand times, and this is the part where the protagonist stops. However hard it is to do nothing, however poorly you understand what it even looks like, before you can do anything, you have to do nothing.

You have to. You don’t have to like it. You don’t have to deserve it.

Probably by the end of this you will have to believe you deserved it, but that’s a problem for act 3. Right now, it’s just how the story goes. On day one of your partial program, a woman who, a few days later, will greet you with “morning, handsome”- -not in a flirty way, in a “group mom” kind of way,.

Even though you know for a fact she is about your age-. -and you smiled for the first time in a week and said “thank you” and tried not to convince yourself she was talking to someone else, on day one she said a thing you’ve heard before, everyone’s heard it before;. It’s a cliche, but just cuz it’s a cliche don’t mean you’ve been living by it:.

“‘no’ is a complete sentence.”. And you, being you, thought,. “wasn’t that a video game?

The ‘saying no’ simulator? Say ‘No’ More?”. You looked it up and it was 90% off right then. So you bought it for a buck-fifty.

You decided play that game, and meditate on the concept of saying no to things. Because that is not a skill you have in abundance, but you are skilled at media analysis. You launched your career analyzing video games.

That’s a thing you know, and maybe you can put that skill in service of yourself for once, and not just your audience. You get why people vlog now, or why they used to- -I mean, does anyone but the old-hats still vlog? If you gotta make a video and you gotta call the plumber, you make a video about calling the plumber.

Like yes, you just overcomplicated a simple chore, but you didn’t overcomplicate making a video,. And now you’re doing one thing instead of two. fewer plates to spin. And you’re probably better at making videos than you are at doing housework, so maybe that’s how people get better at doing housework.

Maybe this is how you get better at saying “no.”. You hate that the corny shit works. You hate that a fucking gratitude journal is scientifically proven to lower your cortisol levels.

You hate that stroking your arms and patting your chest and running your knuckles down your fucking vagus nerve regulates the autonomic nervous system. You hate that it helps to hold a fucking squishmallow during a panic attack.

You hate how much it works to go “vooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo” until you run out of breath and you’re just supposed to do that in the front seat of your car parked next to a bagel shop. And people are gonna walk by and see you? Really? really?

You hate that you’re supposed to talk to your anger and welcome your panic and surf the wave of your anxiety instead of pushing them away because then, and only then,. Can they not only be tolerable but actually kind of productive, instead of coming back concentrated like frozen fucking orange juice. You hate that getting sunlight matters so much, cuz apparently you’re a dandelion.

You hate that being around people- -not even talking to them! not even people you know! Just being in a public place- -is