Today I'm chatting with Ada Palmer, who's a Renaissance historian, novelist, and composer based at the University of Chicago. Today we're discussing your book, Inventing the Renaissance. Ada, thanks for coming on the podcast.

Been looking forward. First question. You've got in this period—late 15th century, early 16th century—in Italy all these different republics: Venice, Florence, Genoa.

That seems unusual both for the time period and for the place. One of the big reasons that the Italian city republics are clustered in Italy is that when the Roman Empire dissolved in the West, individual cities then needed to self-govern. This is true all across Europe.

Those individual cities could no longer get the centralized Roman government to oversee supply routes or keep the roads free of bandits. You could no longer import and export goods at scale. You could no longer rely on central infrastructure.

You had to support things yourself. Larger, wealthier towns were able to make this transition because they could support themselves from the local resources and the farms attached to them. The larger, wealthier towns surrounded by good agricultural land were more successful at converting over.

Okay, let’s have a senate like the old Roman Senate. Let's have our top families form a council. They will rule.

We'll set up a republic. A weaker town that can't support itself as well is much more prone to one wealthy family realizing that they can get goons and take over, declaring themselves the monarch of the area. Or worse, this town cannot self-sustain, it doesn’t have enough.

People there can't get food. They are scared and afraid of being robbed by people who are desperate. But outside of town, there is a wealthy villa that belongs to a noble family, and they have bodyguards.

"Hey, noble family, if I move next to your villa and work for you, will you protect me with your bodyguards?" So towns emptied out, and villages—as in a villa and its environs—developed as a result. A village was a monarchal structure in this sense.

It was the migration of people out of a town into the protection zone of a local lordling. Then those villages grew to different scales, some of them cities, some not. Italy had great agriculture and great agricultural land, so more of Italy's cities were able to sustain themselves as towns and be republics.

I feel like the big take of your book is they were trying to resuscitate Roman virtues. What were the virtues that the Roman emperors had which allowed this safety, good government, et cetera, to work? Stability.

And I don't understand the connection between reading Cicero and contemplating the virtues of a great emperor to… science and technology. Maybe there isn't one, but do you think there is one? What exactly is that connection?

As with many processes, the answer is that there are multiple steps, and it's complicated, and some of the steps are realizing that the earlier steps didn't work. Petrarch, who lived through the Black Death, and lives in a moment when Italy is wracked by civil war and foreign mercenary troops are raiding and pillaging. Italy is wracked by bandits.

When Petrarch survives the Black Death after losing so many friends, he gets a letter. Two of his friends are alive. He had given up hope that anyone he knew would survive, but two of his younger scholar friends are alive.

They're going to come visit him. On the way, they were attacked by bandits. One of them was killed, and the other was lost in the mountains and wounded, and he didn't know that his friend was alive for another year and a half.

The bandits are very real in this period. Petrarch looks around him and says, "This is an age of ash and shadow. What we need is to imitate the arts of the ancients.

Let's try to figure out how the Romans did it." And specifically, the problem is our leaders. Our leaders are selfish.

Our leaders care more about their wealth and their family honor and their power than they do about the people. This is where Romeo and Juliet is really helpful for us to understand. Lord Montague and Lord Capulet, as their goons are knifing each other in the street, they care about defeating each other.

Do they care about the good of Italy? Do they care about the good of the city of Verona? No.

Their feud is harming the city of Verona, and they don't care. They demand that Romeo get away with murder because he is their son. That is not service to the state.

Petrarch reads about the ancient Roman Brutus—not the one who killed Caesar, but the ancestor to whom that one was trying to live up. Brutus was one of the first consuls of Rome, and he learned while in office that his sons were plotting to take over the state and make him king. So he executed his own sons for treason against the state.

Can you imagine Lord Montague wanting to execute Romeo for treason against Verona? He would never do that. When you're living in the plot of Romeo and Juliet and you read about these ancient Roman figures, as described in the lofty biographies of someone like Livy, you read them and you say, "Wow, if only our leaders would act.

Like that." Well, how were they raised? Can we raise our leaders the same way? Can we make libraries filled with what young Cicero read and what young Brutus read?

What did they read? They read Plato, and they read Homer. So we need these things.

Can we recreate the educational environment that produced them? Petrarch suggests this. His students and successors embrace this idea and pour money into traveling across the Alps to look for manuscripts, traveling to Constantinople to purchase manuscripts from the wealthier East where books are common, and bringing.

Them back to assemble these libraries. Then they raise tutors